Bhel Puri Recipe:-

         Bhel Puri is one of the popular chaat in India and it is a 
delicious mixture of puffed rice, sev, tomato, potato, onion and 
sweet-sour-spicy chutneys. Follow this instant and easy recipe and 
make yummy Bombay bhelpuri chaat at home in just few minutes.

Ingredients:-

8 Flat Puri (Papdi)
2 cups roasted or plain Puffed Rice (kurmura/mamra)
1/2 cup Nylon Sev
1/3 cup boiled and chopped Potatoes
3 tablespoons finely chopped Onions
1/3 cup finely chopped Tomato
1 Green Chilli, seeded and finely chopped, optional
1½ tablespoons Khajur Imli Chutney (Date Tamarind Chutney)
1 tablespoon Green Chutney
1 teaspoon Garlic Chutney, optional
2 tablespoons chopped Coriander Leaves
1/2 teaspoon Chaat Masala Powder

How to roast puffed rice?:-

         Heat 2 teaspoon oil in a heavy based kadai over medium flame.
Add puffed rice, a pinch of turmeric powder and salt. Stir and roast it 
until crispy for around 3-4 minutes. Transfer them in a bowl after 
roasting to prevent it from burning.

Directions:

    step-1
          Make all the chutneys by following their recipes. Mix 1/2
          teaspoon prepared garlic chutney with 1/2 teaspoon water to 
          dilute it. Prepare all the ingredients required to make the 
          bhel puri.
    step-2
           Take puffed rice in a large bowl.
    step-3
          Add chopped potatoes, chopped tomatoes, chopped onion and 
          chopped green chilli.
    step-4
          Add khajur imli chutney, green chutney and garlic chutney.
    step-5
          Add nylon sev and chaat masala powder.
    step-6
          Mix all ingredients together with a large spoon.
    step-7
          Garnish with coriander leaves. You can either add crushed papdi 
          or serve it with whole papdis according to your choice. Bhel 
          puri is ready. Divide it into 2 equal portions and transfer 
          to serving plates. Serve it immediately because it will turn 
          soggy within few minutes.
