Pani Puri Recipe:-

This popular street food doesn’t need any introduction! Potato, onion,
chickpeas, coriander chutney stuffed crispy puri drenched in sour and 
spicy mint flavored water (pudina pani) easily fills one’s mouth and 
takes taste buds on a journey of heaven and it is no wonder that it’s 
a popular street snack along the length and breadth of India and known 
as gol gappa, puchka, pakodi, Pani Puri, etc. Preparing pudina vala 
pani and masala for panipuri at home is not only a healthier way of 
enjoying it but also allows you to customize it the way you like it. 
It is very simple to assemble and one can easil find puffed puri at
any Indian grocery store or prepare at home with this recipe.

Ingredients for Pani:-

1/2 cup Mint Leaves
1/2 cup Coriander Leaves, chopped
1-2 Green Chilli, chopped (or to taste)
1/2 inch pieces of Ginger
1½ medium size Lemon
3 tablespoons Sugar
1 teaspoon Chaat Masala Powder
1/4 teaspoons Black Salt (kala namak / sanchal)
4 tablespoons Boondi, optional
Salt to taste
4 cups Water

Ingredients for Masala:-

1½ cups boiled, peeled and mashed Potato (approx. 3 medium)
1/2 cup boiled Kala Chana (black chickpeas)
1/2 teaspoon Red Chilli Powder
1/2 teaspoon Cumin-Coriander Powder
1/4 teaspoon Chaat Masala Powder
2 tablespoons finely chopped Coriander Leaves, optional
Salt to taste

Notes: Soak the kala chana (1/4 cup) for 7-8 hours or overnight 
in water. Boil chana and potatoes with salt and water in a pressure 
cooker for 3-4 whistles over medium flame or until cooked.

Method for Pani:-

    step-1
          Rinse coriander and mint leaves in water and take all 
          the ingredients of pani.
    step-2
          Add mint leaves, coriander leaves, green chilli, ginger 
          and lemon juice (lemon juice is added while grinding to 
          prevent the mint leaves from turning dark) in the small 
          chutney jar of a grinder.
    step-3
          Grind until smooth paste (if required, add 1/4 cup 
          water while grinding).
    step-4
          Transfer them to a large bowl and add sugar, 
          chaat masala powder, black salt and 4 cups water. 
          Stir with a large spoon and mix it properly. Taste for 
          the salt and add as required. Pani is ready; place it in 
          a refrigerator for at least 1-hour before serving or use 
          it at room temperature. If you like soft boondi, mix it now.
          If you like crispy taste of boondi then mix it at the time of serving.

Method For Masala:-

    step-5
          Take mashed potato, kala chana, red chilli powder, cumin-coriander powder, 
          chaat masala powder, coriander leaves and salt (add only if you have not 
          added while boiling the potatoes and chana) in a bowl.
    step-6
          Mix them together with a spoon. Masala is ready.

Assemble Pani Puri:-

    step-7
          Take each puri and gently make a large hole on its top-middle side with 
          a spoon or your index finger or thumb for stuffing.
    step-8
          Stuff it with masala (more or less, as you like). Sprinkle onion and 
          sev over it and drizzle a drop of date tamarind chutney over it. Take 
          pani-puri water in a medium bowl. Dip each puri in water and enjoy…

